# ECEEMDAN
Enhanced Complete Ensamble Empirical Mode Decomposition with Adaptative Noise

Signal decomposition is crucial in several domains, particularly in the dissection of complex signals present in electrical power systems. Understanding the oscillations and patterns within these signals can significantly influence energy resource management, grid stability, and efficient system operation. This paper presents an advanced enhanced decomposition method based on Complete Ensemble Empirical Mode Decomposition with Adaptive Noise (CEEMDAN) to mitigate the inherent drawbacks of the conventional CEEMDAN and its improved version. Unlike CEEMDAN's generalized noise approach, the proposed method introduces adaptive noise, enhancing target signal noise handling by incorporating a tailored filtering and updating process after each iteration. This leads to more accurate signal decomposition compared to traditional methods. Comprehensive tests were conducted using artificially generated signals characterized by mode mixing, varying frequency oscillations, complex real-world electrical demand signals, generator axis vibrations and partial discharge signals. The results demonstrate that the proposed method outperforms traditional techniques in two significant aspects. First, it provides superior spectral separation of the intrinsic modes (IMF) of the signal, thereby enhancing decomposition accuracy. Second, it significantly reduced the number of shifting iterations, thereby alleviating the computational load. These advancements have led to a more accurate and efficient framework that is essential for analyzing nonlinear and nonstationary signals.

The paper "Enhanced complete ensemble EMD with superior noise handling capabilities: A robust signal decomposition method for power systems analysis"  with the explanation of the functioning of this algorithm can be found in: [DOI: 10.1002/eng2.12862](https://doi.org/10.1002/eng2.12862)
